#summary ChordPro song format reference

= ChordPro Song File Format Reference =

The Chordpro format is used for the notation of lyrics with chords in plain text format.

== Chords == 

Chords are delimited by square brackets ('[' and ']'). Sharp is indicated by a '#' (hash) and flat by a 'b' (lowercase 'B').

== Directives ==

Directives are written within curly brackets {}. Following set of directives is recoginzed by bschords application (upper or lower case is not significant):

 * {title: title string} ({t:string}) - Specifies the title of the song. The title is used to sort the songs in the user interface. It usually appears at the top of the song, and may be repeated if the song overflows onto a new column. 
 * {subtitle: subtitle string} ({su:string}) - Specifies a subtitle for the song. This string will be usually visible printed close to the song title.
 * {start_of_chorus} ({soc}) - Indicates the start of a chorus. Songsheet Generator can apply a special marking to highlight the chorus, depending on the setting of the output destination. The marking is applied until the end_of_chorus directive appears.
 * {end_of_chorus} ({eoc}) - Marks the end of a chorus.
 * {comment: string} ({c:string}) - Prints the string following the colon as a comment.
 * {start_of_tab} ({sot}) - Indicates the start of a guitar tab section. The text will be formatted in a fixed-width font until the end_of_tab directive appears. This can be useful for creating a tab drawing with ASCII text. 
 * {end_of_tab} ({eot}) - Marks the end of the guitar tab section.
 * {guitar_comment: string} ({gc:string}) - Prints the string following the colon as a comment. This comment will only be printed if chords are also printed; it should be used for comments to performers, or for other notes that are unneccessary for lyrics-only song sheets (or projection).
 * {new_page} ({np}) - This directive will cause a "cell break" in the Two and Four Discrete Cells per Page printing modes, and a column break in the Two Flowing Columns printing mode. It will cause a physical page break otherwise. It has no effect in the Text and HTML File output destinations. 

